> When do you throw away the key?
> 
> I got my last name, hen I married my wife. We don't quite know where the name actually comes from, where its origins are. It's surface-level origins are Palestinian and the story goes that someone lost his original name gambling and took the name Janzi instead. It came to my wife from her father who got it from his father. There the story ends. But this story is not about the name, it's a story about loss and... Frankly, I don't yet know what the story is about or how it relates to the predicaments of modernity. The open-endedness of the story is, perhaps, approaching the edges of meaning the story hints at. Nevertheless, the story moved me, resonated deeply. It's a short story.
> 
> My father-in-law grew up in a large family in Haifa, Palestine. He died in 2017, in his home in Västerås, a city in the middle of Sweden, surrounded by family, among them his Polish wife, a nurse who kept him as painfree as she could. In the days before he died he started speaking Arabic to long since dead relatives visible through the morphine haze. Perhaps he was returning home, following the snaking paths of carefully placed olive seeds. Wherever he was heading, the door was open. We miss him greatly.
> 
> How did he come to leave Palestine? Well, he was a small child in 1947 and him and his family left their house in Haifa to go on vacation. Details are unclear, maybe they were heading to some other village or city further down the Mediterranean coast. This is where the story abruptly reaches its hinge, for they were never allowed to return to their house in Haifa. Furthermore, my father-in-law was never able to return to Palestine, nor Lebanon for that matter, where he later grew up before once again becoming a refugee. He never got a proper MRI after getting his cancer diagnosis, he still had a bullet stuck in his shoulder from his time resisting the forces that pushed him from his birthplace. During the rest of his life he was a surgeon in Poland and a family doctor in Sweden. His father kept the key to their house until he died and my father-in-law's brother kept it after that. Where the key is now I don't know. Where the house is, I don't know either. Or if it still exists. 
> 
> Stepping up, maybe down, to a more metaphorical level, what unused keys remain on your keychain? Maybe locked up somewhere in a cabinet? I constantly see how I am more burdened by the broken promise of _returning_ to somewhere, somewhere I've been that never existed, somewhere I still carry a key for. When do you throw away the key?