From a diary entry in 2025:

Yesterday evening, while nearly falling asleep, crookedly sitlaying on the couch next to Hilma, my dog, I was listening to a vinyl record, volume quite low. Kenny Wheeler's Angel Song, side B. Kenny Wheeler on trumpet, Lee Konitz on alto sax, Dave Holland on bass, and Bill Frisell on electric guitar. I turned 30 in February of this year, 2025, and received a Fender Player Telecaster, an electric guitar I've been eyeing for many years. As a teenager I played a lot of guitar but recently haven't played much in almost ten years. My approach to the guitar today feels so different that it feels as if I am learning to play a completely new instrument. In short, I am approaching it with the intent of playing something akin to jazz, although writing that I'm not certain who I'd be offending if they actually heard me play. Anyway, while dozing off towards sleep yesterday I was paying close attention to the magnificent interplay between Holland's bouncy booming bass and Frisell's perfectly playful yet restrained plucking. You should listen to it.

Me and my wife are now halfway through the pregnancy and or daughter is well and truly on her way, already kicking, hickuping, sensing light, perhaps hearing that same boom of Holland's bass reverberating in her safely enclosed cocoon. I sense a multitude of thoughts shooting out like tentacles in different directions so I will, I promise, try to keep things as focused as I can. So, here it is. Attention is everything. Attention contains the same subtractive creativity as sculpting marble statues. As I recall some douchebag punk of yore writing, 

> **Attention** is not merely a passive act. It is a creative one. What we choose to pay attention to is what will spring up out of new sources. What we choose to ignore will wither and die. The dominating culture of our time is a culture obsessed with doing. If we're not doing something we're not doing anything. I'm open to the fact that doing nothing might be the most active thing we can do to change things. Rejecting the economies of attention to instead _attend, tend to, and show tenderness_ to the things that are needed, to that which needs our attention more than ever, that is what truly needs doing. Never before has there been such urgency to not be urgent. Pay attention.

As always, I find his writing a bit too on-the-nose but I'm sure he does his best with whatever limited faculties of intellect he has to juggle with. I would, however, in a sense, like to be even more on-the-nose. Attention is the *only* thing that really matters. Attention creates the world, it creates your life, it creates you, attention is the window of consciousness, the flow inlet of existential nutrients or toxins, it is also the outflow of love, *tend*erness. The most vital skill you can learn, the pinnacle of perfect wisdom is **the skill of keeping your attention in tension with your intention so that life can reverberate through you**. 

How then, more concretely, does one apply this skill? Well, there are traditions of meditation that I feel unequipped to summarise here. My thoughts currently centre around the importance of the bidirectional nature of attention. What I mean is this. Attention is your soul shining a light on something or someone, showing that you are giving the gift of openly receiving their being. An outward flow of attention. But it is also the receiving itself, or the inward flow of attention. They are of course part of the same flow or, less abstractly said, you will not be able to give someone your full attention while paying full attention to your phone. Those who have listened to my whining dulcet tones in the past knows that I hold the belief that one core issue of modern life is the impossibility or inability of aligning actions with intentions due to the complex web of consequences all of our actions are swept into. Divine loving intention never seems to trickle down from above in our world. But it all starts with attention. And sadly, it often ends there too. Pay attention. Align your attention, constantly tune it to your intentions. Your life and wellbeing, and the wellbeing of all you love, depend on it. Should you be here reading this? Somewhere, Frisell is plucking away and not a soul is listening.

---

> Reality is what we take to be true. What we take to be true is what we believe. What we believe is based upon our perceptions. What we perceive depends on what we look for. What we look for depends on what we think. What we think depends on what we perceive. What we perceive determines what we believe. What we believe determines what we take to be true. What we take to be true is our reality.
> 
>  - David Bohm