> I signed a contract for a job yesterday. It's a good job. In fact, it's a better job than I have any right to expect being able to get. Many stories and myths emphasise the return. The hero left for some great adventure and then returns, a different person, hopefully. I left my previous employment because the dissonance between what I sensed in the world and the bullshit of the work crushed me. After signing the contract yesterday my wife asked if we could celebrate by getting takeaway from our favourite Chinese restaurant. She called them and ordered the food and after ten minutes on the train from Malmö, followed by a short walk, I arrived at the restaurant. They weren't quite finished yet, so I sat down on a chair to wait. Just opposite to where I was sitting was an aquarium. On the bottom were a dozen white rocks and coming out of those rocks were three thin strands of some sort of seaweed. The sole inhabitant, a red Siamese fighting fish, was floating somberly near the rocks, behind the seaweed. It made me incredibly sad. Why? Was it perhaps the chili and sichuan fragrance in the air? It made me angry too, because I could hear, in my head, thoughts I would've had in an earlier life. Surely this is the best possible life, being in a safe, enclosed environment without anyone to hurt, harm, or disturb you, food arriving without effort, a life of comfort, ease, and relaxation. Fuck. That. Give me the open ocean if I so have to crush my skull on the side of the fishbowl to get it. I refuse to bear this false crown of successful return, adventures over and done with.
> 
>  - Diary entry, 2025-2-26