**Radical options are generally ways of managing our predicaments that are deemed too unrealistic and ambitious**. We shouldn't fear radical options. We must rip out and restructure the very [roots](https://www.etymonline.com/word/radical) of our thoughts, ideas, practices, and ways of life. What must be done to ensure our continued survival is nothing short of radical so if someone claims you're being too radical you might be approaching a path forward. However, there is a risk involved. A single step downwards from the surface will have you drowning in *why* and the further down you go the fewer answers can be found because we built it all on whys we've forgotten. The roots of modernity might run deep but they are so rotten not even larvae dwell within them.

> To be radical is to grasp things by the root.
> 
> Karl Marx

**Outgoing connections:**
- [[Business-as-usual narrative]] - Nothing to see here. 
- [[Ignorance of ongoing collapse]] - Even considering the radical options of what is required to keep civilisation going is not on people's radar.
- [[Illusion of no option]] - If you ignore the obvious option, often a radical one, you end up in a situation where there exists no other than option than blind continuance.
- [[Inertia]] - When you've identified that you're moving rapidly in the wrong direction, a wise move is to brake and turn. Inertia propels us, yes, but we haven't even considered deviating, even less braking, god forbid stopping to consider our situation.
- [[Lack of feeling needed]] - Narrow example coming. I wanted to be an engineer in order to concretely and clearly make the world a better place. You identify a problem, you apply engineering, science, and technology, and you might solve the problem and contribute to the improvement of people's lives. And sure, in a limited sense, engineers do this. Yet, I haven't seen a single job position that incentivises the radical option of betterment. I am fully aware that to make money there needs to be a component of profit or gain, sure, but when I consider the slightly deeper "why" of any field, be it engineering, medicine, or architecture, all I see is surface-level considerations, intellectual laziness, bottomless incompetence, and pretentious acts of illusory betterment. If it is radical to ask why more than once, then there is no work-related place where I will feel needed. Not that I should ever have been naive enough to hope for the contrary. Remember when you thought the world was run by competent adults? Tell me when you meet one.
- [[Lack of the longterm]] - To have a longterm intention is so impossibly radical that it simply doesn't happen. Better just not.
- [[Lack of visions]] - Avoiding the radical options in a civilisation whose roots are clearly rotting away narrows the field of view to such an extent that there no longer is a future to envision. 
- [[Meat eating]] - Humans, the only animal capable of moral, often claim that they would change a lot in their life and behaviour, but not eating the fried fatty strips cut off the ass cheeks of doped up dead pigs regularly would be a step too far.
- [[No precautionary principle]] - The most radical option of modernity is probably deciding to not do something profitable because of the risks associated with the action.
- [[Profit]] - If all you do is for profit, yours and/or others, your role in modernity will be frictionless. 
- [[Rationalism]] - We must then rationalise why we did what we did, do what we do, or why we didn't do what seemed obvious to do.
- [[Slow change]] - These tracks we're travelling in are now so deep that avoiding the radical options will not just make the change slow, it'll make it impossible. There is no longer a radical option within modernity, you must leave the tracks. It'll be scary but away from the noise of this deeply set highway you'll meet others. Walk along its eastern edge and you should find me, I usually sit underneath the birch overgrown with ivy. The coffee is still warm.
- [[Solutionism]] - It seems that when all you have are narrow solutions, the world floods with problems outside of your problem-solving abilities. 
- [[Sustainable growth]] - The narrative of sustainable growth is one of modernity's ultimate denials and refusals of any radical option. It would rather push towards inventing cold fusion and superintelligence than considering that maybe endless growth isn't a feasible longterm option. 
- [[The impossibility of UBI]] - UBI is too radical. Way too radical. Like tan surfer dude telephone mudra radical.
- [[Unemployment]] - Can anyone tell me a good reason for why unemployment is bad? I suppose people living their lives outside of the wheels of production and commerce is too radical to even imagine? Here I thought unemployment had been our main goal for the past few hundred years but no, too radical.