Whether or not one's diet should include meat is, in this case, better discussed elsewhere, though it should, in this landscape, be quite obvious where the arrows point. Nonetheless, meat consumption as an ethical, environmental, and health-related predicament is, I believe, quite clear.

Ethics aside, speaking the language of modernity **meat consumption is so ludicrously inefficient** when it comes to land use. We require a tremendous amount of land to raise livestock and the caloric extraction is increasingly more inefficient the further away from the main source we go. It is estimated that it takes around 100 times as much land to produce a kilocalorie of beef versus the equivalent plant-based alternative and, before you speak, the same is true for a gram of protein. Is modernity really obsessed with efficiency and intelligent solutions?

I will also add that there are certain arguments claiming we should eat meat that I find attractive but unconvincing. They always sound something like "to truly be part of life, we must also be part of death, and to keep the world and ourselves healthy we must live side by side with grazing animals... and eat them in their prime". Okay, I slightly modified the last bit but you get the gist of it. Death is undoubtedly a part of life and everything we do in and for life has its mirrored acts in and for death. But if I lived in a community that argued that we needed to live side by side with other people who were then harvested for organs, blood, and meat in their prime... Well, I think I'd go live somewhere else. The poetic argument that there is beauty in the fact that the cow you eat contains the life force of everything it ate living off the land sounds to me like an attempt to dress one's desire for beef in poetic justification. After all, compared to every other animal on Earth humans have the ability to adapt their ways of living almost indefinitely. Why not pick a way of peace?

**Outgoing connections:**
*   [[Industrial slaughter]]
*   [[Selfishness]]