**Soil erosion is the wearing away of the upper layer of soil**. This thin layer of dust on the crusty surface of a billiard ball is what supports all life. Without it nothing can grow or live.

We are [gnawing away](https://www.etymonline.com/word/erosion) at the topsoil of the Earth with increasing speed and ferocity, consuming what isn't ours.

> It is not our part to master all the tides of the world, but to do what is in us for the succour of those years wherein we are set, uprooting the evil in the fields that we know, so that those who live after may have clean earth to till.
> 
> Gandalf (J.R.R. Tolkien), Lord of the Rings

Soil erosion has several causes, some (or presently most) which are affected or generated by human activities. These include agricultural practices such as tillage, monocropping, pesticide use, and chemical fertilizers; deforestation, roads and cities, as well as climate change more generally.

> For many years, my walks have taken me down an old fencerow in a wooded hollow on what was once my grandfather’s farm. A battered galvanized bucket is hanging on a fence post near the head of the hollow, and I never go by it without stopping to look inside. For what is going on in that bucket is the most momentous thing I know, the greatest miracle that I have ever heard of: it is making earth.
> 
> The old bucket has hung there through many autumns, and leaves have fallen around it and some have fallen into it. Rain and snow have fallen into it, and the fallen leaves have held the moisture and so have rotted. Nuts have fallen into it, or been carried into it by squirrels; mice and squirrels have eaten the meat of the nuts and left the shells; they and other animals have left their droppings; insects have flown into the bucket and died and decayed; birds have scratched in it and left their droppings and perhaps a feather or two. This slow work of growth and death, gravity and decay, which is the chief work of the world, has by now produced in the bottom of the bucket several inches of black soil…The old bucket started out a far better one than you can buy now. I think it has been hanging on that post for something like fifty years.
> 
>  
> 
>  
> 
> If the local culture cannot preserve and improve the local soil, then, as both reason and history inform us, the local community will decay and perish, and the work of soil building will be resumed by nature. A human community, then, if it is to last long, must exert a sort of centripetal force, holding local soil and local memory in place. Practically speaking, human society has no work more important than this.
> 
> Wendell Berry

**Outgoing connections:**
*   **[[Access to food]]** - Soil erosion threatens our access to food directly.
*   **[[Agriculture]]** - It threatens our access to food mainly through affecting agriculture.
*   **[[Carbon fundamentalism]]** - Soil erosion is complex and complicated whereas carbon emissions appear to be more simple.
*   **[[Climate change]]** - Eroded soil does not do well in creating conditions for areas to sequester carbon. Among other issues. Did I just fall in the carbon fundamentalism trap? Shit. Well, soil erosion contributes to climate change.
*   **[[Desertification]]** - Soil erosion is often the first step towards desertification.
*   **[[Ecological crisis]]** - Soil erosion is a clear part of the ecological crisis.
*   **[[Faulty meta-optimisation]]** - Optimising for maximisation of short-term agricultural gains have set us up for catastrophy.
*   **[[Ignorance of ongoing collapse]]** - If we end up not having any more arable land it's game-over.
*   **[[Lack of systems thinking]]** - If we do not rethink agriculture from a systems thinking perspective we're royally fucked.
*   **[[Malnutrition]]** - Sunlight, water, and soil. The basis for all our nutrition.
*   **[[Resource conflicts]]** - Arable land is turning into a diminishing resource that will be fought over.
*   **[[Resources]]** - To re-source, year after year, the nutrients we require, the soil must remain fertile.
*   **[[Social erosion]]** - As above, so below. As below, so above.
*   **[[Tipping points]]** - Soil erosion can occur quite rapidly whereas soil regeneration might take more than decades.
*   **[[War]]** - Conflicts over arable land can, will, and have already turned into full-scale wars.